This dataset includes raw neuroimaging data from the neuroimaging of primary trigeminal neuralgia study, collected at the Federal Neurosurgical Center, Novosibirsk, Russia.
Data were collected between 2022 and 2025. Participants were adults with diagnosed primary trigeminal neuralgia (according to The International Classification of Headache Disorders criteria), as well as healthy volunteers.

This dataset includes high-resolution 3D_T1w_TFE, 3D_T2w, DTI with 64 diffusion directions, and resting-state bold-fMRI data. Anatomical scans were defaced using pydeface software.

MRI data were collected for 120 patients with PTN, organized in folders labeled sub-000, and 55 healthy volunteers in folders labeled sub-00. Furthermore, follow-up MRI data are available for 64 patients, stored in folders labeled sub-000fu. A second follow-up (via telephone interview) is available for 93 patients.

Clinical, demographic, and treatment-related information for each participant is provided in the participants.tsv file. A brief description of the columns is as follows:

BIDS_ID: Participant identifier (e.g., sub-009 for patients, sub-01 for controls).

age, sex, BMI, Racial/ethnic category: Basic demographic and anthropometric data.

Clinical_finding: Primary diagnosis (e.g., TN, SUNA, SUNCT, or "normal" for controls).

MRI_finding: Summary of key radiological findings (e.g., NVC, Fazekas grade, other anomalies).

Sindou_grade: Neurovascular compression grade according to the Sindou classification (where applicable).

Pain_side, Pain_type, Pain_severity, Disease_duration: Characteristics of the pain condition.

Pharm_treatment: Pharmacological treatment details, including drug names and daily doses.

Previous_surgeries, Previous_surgery_type: History of prior surgical interventions for TN.

Surgery_type, Surgery_outcome, Postsurgery_pain_reduction, Surgical_complications: Details of the current surgical procedure (MVD, PI) and its immediate results.

First follow-up, First follow-up time: Availability and timing (in days) of the first clinical follow-up (median time: 245 days).

Second follow-up, Second follow-up pain NRS, Second follow-up time: Availability, pain score (0-10), and timing (in days) of the second follow-up (median time: 568 days).

Comorbid medical conditions: List of reported comorbid health conditions.

Additionally, the participants_psychology file contains data from psychological and neuropsychological testing for 84 patients and 47 healthy volunteers.

The "mriqc_data" folder contains information on image quality metrics for T1w, T2w, DWI, and BOLD images calculated in a group analysis format for all patients. Raw data for each patient is available upon request to the dataset authors.